Infinispan extension upgrades (#18363)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/infinispan-client.adoc

</dependency>
----

== Configuring the Infinispan client

Open the `application.properties` file in the `src/main/resources` directory with any text editor.

Note that Infinispan documentation refers to a `hotrod-client.properties` file.
You can configure the Infinispan client with either properties file but `hotrod-client.properties` always takes
priority over `application.properties`.

Additionally, you cannot update configuration properties at runtime.
If you modify `application.properties` or `hotrod-client.properties`, you must rebuild the application before those changes take effect.

== Connecting to Infinispan clusters

Add the following properties to connect to Infinispan Server:

> [source,properties]

Reviewer: Hi @karesti , I'm checking the updates and trying to follow the steps however I got into some trouble :) 

- When I used a sample hello project with this configuration I was able to  open the console at http://127.0.1.1:11222/console/ and follow the https://infinispan.org/get-started/. There was just one little confusion between 127.0.1.1:11222 and localhost:11222. localhost:11222 didn't work.

- Then I tried the same with the quickstart and I wasn't able to compile the quickstart and failed to connect to localhost/127.0.0.1:11222. I'm probably missing some information. 
- I noticed that the configuration in the quickstart is different from the one in this guide. Which one should I use?

I have limited knowledge about Quarkus and this is my first experience with Infinispan however I wanted to share this with you in case that some of it is relevant. Please let me know if you want me to share the errors I got with the infinispan-client-quickstart. I'm on zulip or gchat.

Author: The configuration in the quickstart and the guide are the same now, I did a PR to remove the unnecessary default values and simplify the connection.
 `http://localhost:11222/console/welcome` and `http://127.0.0.1:11222/console/welcome` are the same url that point to the local running infinispan server (with a container or downloading the server.
maybe you are missing a config in your `hosts` file?
thanks for trying the quickstart!

----

The Infinispan client is configurable in the `application.properties` file that can be
provided in the `src/main/resources` directory.

It is also possible to configure a `hotrod-client.properties` as described in the Infinispan user guide. Note that
the `hotrod-client.properties` values overwrite any matching property from the other configuration values (eg. near cache).
This properties file is build time only and if it is changed, requires a full rebuild.

== Running and connecting to Infinispan

> If you are new to Infinispan, check the 5 minutes https://infinispan.org/get-started/[Getting stated with Infinispan] tutorial to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are new to Infinispan, check the 5 minute https://infinispan.org/get-started/[Getting stated with Infinispan] tutorial to
```

learn how to run a server locally.

> From Infinispan 12, authentication and authorization are enabled implicitly. Create a user named `admin` to implicitly have a user with the admin role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of Infinispan 12, authentication and authorization are enabled by default in the server, therefore you should add a user.
```

If you are running a container, passing the USER="admin" and PASS="password" will make the trick.

If you are running a downloaded distribution, use the Command Line Tool from the downloaded server folder.
[source,bash]
----
./bin/cli.sh user create admin -p password
----

> Once your Infinispan Server is running, connect to the Infinispan Server witIh these properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once your Infinispan Server is running, connect to the Infinispan Server with these properties.
```

If your classes have only mutable fields, then the `ProtoFactory` annotation
is not required, assuming your class has a no arg constructor.

Then all that is required is a very simple `GeneratedSchema` interface with an annotation
on it to specify configuration settings

.BooksSchema.java
[source,java]
----
import org.infinispan.protostream.GeneratedSchema;
import org.infinispan.protostream.annotations.AutoProtoSchemaBuilder;
import org.infinispan.protostream.types.java.math.BigDecimalAdapter;

@AutoProtoSchemaBuilder(includeClasses = { Book.class, Author.class, BigDecimalAdapter.class }, schemaPackageName = "book_sample")
interface BookStoreSchema extends GeneratedSchema {
}
----

[TIP]
Protostream provides default Protobuf mappers for commonly used types as `BigDecimal`,

> included under the `org.infinispan.protostream.types` package.

Reviewer 2: The protostream module would need to be added to the project, it isn't a package in the normal protostream module.

Author: I would like to include the dependency in the client. I thought it was since I use it in the integration tests but indeed it's not in the client

NOTE: Other types may be supported for injection, please see other sections for more information

=== Registering Protobuf Schemas with Infinispan Server

> One the serialization on the client guide is done, you must register Protobuf schemas

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will then need to register the Protobuf schemas
```

with Infinispan Server if you want to perform queries or convert from `Protobuf` to other media types

> such as `json`.

Reviewer 2: Should json be capitalized? I don't know :)

Author: i capitalize

[TIP]

> If you log to the Infinispan Console for a local running server in `http://localhost:11222`,
> you can check the schemas that exist under the `Schemas` tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can check the schemas that exist under the `Schemas` tab by logging into 
the Infinispan console at  `http://localhost:11222`
```

> The `quarkus.infinispan-client.use-schema-registration` property is `true` by default, so the extension
> will take care of the schema upload to Infinispan. This is very useful for development mode.
> However, if you need to deal yourself with the schema evolution over time,
> turn the property to 'false' for production environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default protobuf schemas generated this way will be registered by this extension
when the client first connects.
However, it might be required to handle the registration manually as a schema may evolve
over time when used in production, so you can disable this from occurring by configuring the 
`quarkus.infinispan-client.use-schema-registration` to `false`.
```

> Use the https://infinispan.org/docs/infinispan-operator/master/operator.html[Infinispan Operator]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure the schema manually please use https://infinispan.org/docs/infinispan-operator/master/operator.html[Infinispan Operator]
```

> for Kubernetes deployments, or the Infinispan Web Console, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for Kubernetes deployments, Infinispan Web Console, 
```

https://infinispan.org/docs/stable/titles/rest/rest.html#rest_v2_protobuf_schemas[REST API] or the
https://infinispan.org/docs/stable/titles/encoding/encoding.html#registering-sci-remote-caches_marshalling[Hot Rod Java Client]

> for any other uses cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.
```

NOTE: Other types may be supported for injection, please see other sections for more information

=== Registering Protobuf Schemas with Infinispan Server

> rotostream provides default Protobuf

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
protostream provides default Protobuf
```

The Infinispan Client extension enables SSL by default. You can read more about this
at link:native-and-ssl[Using SSL With Native Executables].

> The guide for configuring these can be found https://infinispan.org/docs/stable/titles/hotrod_java/hotrod_java.html#hotrod_authentication[here].

Reviewer 2: Looks like this paragraph should be moved above with the other.
